Did you even know the word cocaine?
No. Didn't know the word cocaine. Heroin was
known, and opium. Opium probably more so. But
again, students didn't indulge in those things.
You just didn't. Alcohol was the drug of choice.
And
I never knew of anybody on heroin or cocaine or even
marijuana. Again, marijuana being something
that the lower classes dealt in marijuana, people
that weren't very smart. Let's see. You didn't do
final review your senior year. You didn't do
commissioning. You didn't get senior boots. I had
senior boots before I was drummed out. I did have
senior boots for a brief period. Still have them,
as a matter of fact. And you say drummed out. Well, I
could not review the contract because I had a gap.
And as far as you knew, you and others, they were
looking for reasons not to have to have too many
second lieutenants. Oh, yeah. Korea's over. We
don't need them. So they were looking for ways to
get out of it. And truthfully, we were looking ways
where we were just as happy to be out of it. Senior
ring. Do you remember when you got it? At ring
dance. When I got it, I got it before ring dance. I
got it between junior and senior year.
An interesting thing, when I was president of the
Association of Farmer Students, I lost my senior
ring. During that year? During that year, I lost my
senior ring. And I can't remember the name of the
lady who was ring clerk forever. But we went over
and went down into the basement where she had the
records. And Buck Wirus went with me and said,
Miss, this is John. He's president of the
association. He lost his ring. He wants to order
another one. And she said, I'll check. And she went
off into the tombs and came back with my records and
on her adding machine added up ours. And then she
said, I guess it will be all right. That wasn't all
evolution, was it? No, no, no, no, no. What was that
woman? She was ring clerk forever. I can't
remember her name. But she added, I'm president of
the Association of Farmers. I pay her salary. Was
there any kind of routine for you and your buddies
when you got your ring that y'all did anything? No,
I got my ring. See, today, apparently, one of the
things for some people is you put it in a pitcher of
beer. They drink the whole, all the pitcher. No, we
put it in a four-pitcher. No, we got our ring and we
put it on right then. What were your feelings about
putting that ring on? This was a symbol that it's
almost over.
And
the ring was respected. And so this was the symbol
that it's almost over. And you looked forward to
the ring dance to turn it around. Yes, it was an
important thing. It was an important part of it,
totally. And when I had mine remade, I had it remade
as A&M College. But I had to have the new one. It was
by then University. And I had mine made. My
replacement was made with college on it. Now, did
you put any shoe blacking on your rig? No. Because
I've understood that that was what some people
did. To keep it looking new? Yeah, yeah. What does
it mean to wear an egg?
Personal satisfaction, achievement.
It has many times produced recognition in strange
places, in weird places, in other nations, and it
has produced recognition. Just spur of the
moment. And of course I have seen it and recognized
people and said something to people when I would
see the ring. And it's not uncommon even today at my
age. I see it in young people and I see it in people my
age. And I always say something to them if I spot a
ring somewhere. Did you go to bonfire? No, yes.
Where was it held? Right in the middle of the drill
field, right in front of the student center. What
was it composed of? Trees, logs, same thing they do
today. See, once upon a time there was trash, but no
trash. No trash. No trash in our day. Whose job was
it to put it together? The Corps generally put it
together, and work assignments were based on your
position in the Corps. So the freshmen were, we
didn't have cranes. We had a center pole with a rope
on it. And if you get enough freshmen pulling out
there going that way, you can pull the log up this
way. And so freshmen were beasts of burden. And the
sophomores weren't a whole lot better. About when
did the effort begin for the bug fight? Wood
started being cut probably a month before and
trimmed up so that you kept only the trunk of the
tree. And that started maybe a month earlier
because we did it with axes. We didn't do it with
chainsaws. Did bonfire seem like a serious area
then? Oh, it was, yeah, it was a joyous event. Yeah.
Everybody there to have a good time. Yes. Yes. What
about Muster? What about you as a student? Muster
held, as a student, you went to Muster, which was
normally held in front of the administration
building. And so you all assembled out there on
that open area toward Highway 6. And it would be the
entire student body for the muster speech and
address. Daylight address. Daylight. And what
did that, did that have any... It helped to, it is
the thing I guess that... that triggers you to the
future when you're gone. That one thing may be the
thing that triggers you into the local club when
you leave A&M. It's muster that is the habit you
develop that pulls you into the local club. and get
you to come in. And once you get into the local club,
then you have the camaraderie. When you were an
undergraduate, you heard the muster roll thing,
right? Did you hear any names that touched you? No,
nothing to be said. I was wondering if there were
any students that you had known that got killed in
Korea?
Yes. But it was so common, it was not emotional.
It's like any war. Oh, Joe got killed. Oh, that's
tough. Damn, he was a good fellow. See, for me,
Vietnam, to hear the name of the student that had
been in my class was really tough. But I'm talking
about my age as a student. See, now you're more
mature. You're talking about being a professor.
now, and that being more mature and more
understanding. But when it's somebody that is
your age and he went off to war and you expect a
percentage of them to be killed, it's, oh, that's
too bad. He was a good guy. As you're getting ready
to leave the campus professionally, how did you
feel about getting a job, whether or not you were
prepared for the real world? I felt adequate and
felt good because I had been through this series of
things of working for a summer and a semester and
going to school for a semester and working a summer
and a semester and going to school for a semester.
So I had passed over that thing of obtaining and
doing and going and so forth. So it was not...
awesome to me, if you will. I can appreciate how it
can be a frightening thing, somebody coming out.
But I had passed that because I had been through
that routine. You see, it actually took me
until 55 before I could actually end up with a
degree in my hand, which was in 52. Did you feel that
A&M prepared you well? Oh yes. I still feel good
about that. Did A&M help you get a job or did you? No,
no. I had it all lined up. And within two years I went
into business for myself and had been there ever
since. I knew where I was going. That was all. I knew
exactly what I was going to do. and how it was going
to get from here to there. Let's see. A side trip.
Student nicknames, do you remember any that were
funny, goofy?
I haven't stopped thinking about that. Not in
particular. Because it seems to me in that year
almost everybody had a nickname. I was Bubba.
There were a thousand Bubbas. Were you Bubba
before you went to A&M? Did you become Bubba later?
Yeah, I carried Bubba with me. Oh, you carried him
with you. Yeah. And...
I don't think of anything strange. There were all
of the usual ones, but nothing different, nothing
exciting, nothing strange. Sorry that makes for
good writing, but it's... Right now, we're
getting ready to the serious part. What did it all
mean? Are there any things that you had
anticipated? Do you think of any omissions yet?
Anything we've overlooked, forgotten, left out?
During student days, Pascoe, we're going so far
back, it's really difficult to recall. Without
your prodding, I would even have more difficulty
recalling a lot of things that went on. Was
anything Hayden Boatner? Was he the commandant
all of your years? No. Who took over after him? Jim
something or other. I'm sorry, but the general
went on to Korea, as a matter of fact. Boatner. Yes.
Prison camp. Yes. And you all knew he would
straighten it out quickly. I knew they were in lots
of trouble over there. Who was president at A&M
when you were there? Oh, OK. I bridged Tom
Harrington and David Morgan. Did you have any
impression of them?
My roommate, the editor of the battalion, and Tom
Harrington had a running hatred for each other
that, of course, I got involved in. In fact, in
later years, Tom became a good friend and a man whom
I thought a great deal of. David Morgan was kind of
like the paint
on the wall. Nothing outstanding about David
Morgan. And I don't even recall who followed him.
Who was dean of engineering?
The fact that you... He was dean forever. He was
dean forever.
Gosh. And Gilchrist had already retired.
Gilchrist was gone. Gilchrist was gone. Oh. Okay,
let's go to the... I'll remember the dean of
engineering. He was dean of engineering for...
even after I became active in the association's
work, he was still dean of engineering. What are
the events or circumstances or whatever that make
up Aggie spirit? People. Learning
how to get along with people, learning how to meet
and understand. And when you have people with the
common thing, you develop the common bond. And
it's because you have that commonality and you
want to make it work. And you do make it work. Are
there any events where these people Oh, yes. Every
city has its own events that are ongoing. I got
active in the Fort Worth AM Club. But let's go back.
Is this created first on the campus? Well, it's
created first. You first have a loyalty. I guess
your first loyalty is your roommate, and you
become
self-protective. And then it's your outfit or
organization. And I do the quotation marks on
outfit because I am a radical and I told people at
College Station 30 years ago before I was really
active and I was looked down upon in 1975 because I
really screamed it from the bully pulpit that I
had. We needed desperately fraternities and
sororities. Because a fraternity is nothing but
an outfit. And I screamed it loudly and I was
strongly and loudly put down in those days. I
submit to you that I was right. I wish we had a piece
of real estate adjacent to the campus where a bunch
of fraternities were. Oh, wouldn't that be
wonderful? Wouldn't it be wonderful? Because
surely it wouldn't surprise you to find out those
who live on university or college campuses make
better grades than those who live off. Those who
live off, who live in an organizational setting.
Do better than those who live in an apartment
house. Absolutely. There's somebody to turn to to
wake you up, give you help. Absolutely. You
develop that commonality, that camaraderie,
that spirit, if you will, and that is what turns
inward. A&M originally got it because of its
isolation. It first developed because it's an
isolated place. Even when I was there, it was
isolated. You couldn't run down to Houston. You
couldn't run up to Dallas. You couldn't run over to
San Antonio. Today, transportation being what it
is, it's nothing to go to those places. But in those
days, you had to plan ahead, and you had to work
hard, and you had to figure out what you were going
to do before you could go to one of those cities.
Right now, this causes me to jump back. Neither you
nor anyone else I've interviewed has talked about
riding on the train to or from College Station. Did
many students ever ride the train? I think that's
probably the only train service. I rode the train a
couple of times when I would stay to... This was
after I was senior and was ready to get married. I
rode the train back a couple of times simply
because I could get the old train out of... It left
Fort Worth here, went to Dallas, and then wandered
down and picked up milk all the way to Houston. And
you left here about 11 o'clock at night, and you got
to College Station about 7 o'clock in the morning.
It took that long because it stopped every few
feet. It had square wheels. I rode that train a few
times, but it was a thing of convenience because I
had to get down. Serious questions. What did it
mean to you? What has it meant to you in your life
that you went there? It's meant a great deal to me in
high school because I have put a lot...
post-graduate in A&M. I've been active in A&M
affairs and still am for that matter. I got into
local club and from local club into the former
student association council and from the council
to the executive committee and from the executive
committee to being president and from being,
after I was When I became past president, Jack
Williams asked me to go on the board at Yellowstone
and I did. He asked me to serve a number of boards. I
was part of the organization of the press, which I
have loved every moment of. If I've done anything
good, it was helped to organize the press and to be a
part of the press. If I've done anything good, that
was
it. Yes, it has meant a lot to me. It has meant that I
have friends everywhere and friends all over. all
stages of wealth and life and age one of the
difficult things for me is to identify now with my
own class because you know i i i i don't know if you
remember remember niley smith he always i'm niley
smith normally well niley was a friend as well as
people who are still in school are friends And
that's because I have been close to it. And I really
don't have a strong identification with my class.
But A&M has been a great deal to me because it has
opened up and let me see a lot of things that
otherwise I would have been lost into my own
personal daily routine and not be able to see.
Right now, I may be repeating the question. What
feelings do you have in your heart for A&M now?
I am
planning now to
try to do some work with a group that Barry Thompson
organized.
A side issue to the old Target 2000 group, and I was
vice chairman of that group, a side issue to that
that that got buried, I think, out of fear and
concern and lack of desire was we did not look far
enough. Target 2000 group took A&M and A&M is
exactly what Target 2000 designed
There was a group of us, an undercurrent, that
said, somewhere out there beyond, universities
are going to have to change. Universities. And we
need to plan that now. And so a lot was done, but not
enough. And I think that what has happened to the
system recently as increasingly new Texas A&M
universities are growing is where 2000 was headed
but couldn't bring itself to go there.
It is not practical to take A&M much farther than it
is now in population. And yet the A&M experience,
the spirit, the ideas, the basic thoughts and so
forth need to be made open to an ever increasing
population. It is important that that experience
be available to ever more and more and more people.
It's in the interest of the future students. It's
in the interest of Texas that we take this idea and
we expand on it. And somehow, Texas A&M University
at Canyon has to become Texas A&M University. And
Texas A&M University Kingsville has to become
Texas A&M University. And Texas A&M University
Carpets has to become Texas A&M University. And
there has to be absolutely no difference between
them. and a course in the history of the war between
the states, the unpleasantness, which I think is
your field, the unpleasantness of the 1860s, the
same course that is taught at College Station has
to be taught everywhere and at the same time. so
that the benefit can be taken through video
conferencing of the knowledge of
Haskell-Monroe, and it can be delivered to each of
these other campuses at the same hour, on the same
day, out of the same book, and so forth. Otherwise,
we cannot deliver the education that we need to to
the people of Texas, and we have to do that. And so
now it's time to plan again and let's look out there
for 18, for 2050. And let's be prepared and let's be
there before we're in trouble for not going.